## Assignment: Summary Response to Above The Clouds by Berkeley
  I think that Above the Clouds: A Berkeley View of Cloud Computing does a great job at motivating the software industry to adopt, expand, and redefine the raw computing utility resources of Cloud Computing.  The paper heavily focuses on the growth opportunities at the forefront of the field in 2009 for processing, storage, and networking as pay-as-you-go services and boasts about all the benefits of these utilities in new applications made possible by the Public Cloud. The paper’s engaging introduction, practical significance to relevant problems, innovative approaches to former ideas, strong supporting written and visual evidence, and recognition of known challenges at the time of the paper all excited me to further explore this topic.  Based on where Cloud Computing is today, it’s evident that industry leaders were also excited and motived to consider the implications for new application possibilities and build upon its insights.
  
  Prior to 2009, Public Cloud Computing and raw computing utilities were not novel ideas and had mainly been a pipe dream. Up to that point, access to raw computing utilities were mainly constrained to large data centers at big companies who had enough money to purchase, maintain, and operate the whole systems themselves. Companies struggled with high initial investments, up-front commitments, future provisioning, and demand swings that all came with the conventional computing model. I thought the example of semiconductor foundries was a strong parallel made by the authors that proved to be successful and predicted similar results for the future of cloud computing utilities.  The paper highlights the new business models brought forth by PayPal for online transactions and Google’s AdSense for web page ad revenue which would help make possible the pay-as-you-go model for computing utilities on the public cloud.  
  
  The rise of analytics, computationally extensive applications, mobile applications, and all around greater need for batch processing posed significant opportunities in computing, and even still do today.  It’s cool to see that our industry is still motivated and making strides to improve elasticity, scalability, to lower initial investments, and to promote short-term use.  The paper talks a lot about the breakout of Amazon’s EC2 and Microsoft’s Azure services for virtual servers and machines, as well as Amazon’s S3 storage service that are each set up on the cloud to provide users with direct access to processing power and storage space.  These are massive cloud utility services today, each of which has grown exponentially due to their availability, scalability, and ease of use and payment for companies around the world.  Lastly, the paper’s direct explanation and examples of economic benefits really drives home the point.  Incorporating usage-based-pricing and cost associativity lead to huge improvements in elasticity, demand prediction, and scalability.  Paying separately per resource (storage, processing, bandwidth) and lower physical operating costs remain today as some of the main incentives to use cloud computing utilities.  This has allowed for existing enterprises to convert from conventional computing while also effectively supporting new startups and individual developers.
  
  From a viewpoint of a software engineer delivering a utility service from the cloud, there are some examples today that align with the pure computational resource picture painted by the authors and other examples where that model doesn’t quite.  Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) (and the growing services of Containers and Serverless) are the closest example of on-demand, pay-as-you-go, raw utility computing products on the public cloud.  These offers customers direct access to virtualized compute, network, and storage without the need for the ownership and operation of the bare metal hardware centers.  They also allow customers to horizontally scale resources across multiple virtual instances and therefore engage in cost associativity and curb demand spikes.  The fact that these services are managed by the massive enterprises, they can offer higher performance for significantly less cost than if a customer needed to own all of the physical hardware.  AWS’s EC2, Google’s Compute Engine GCE, Microsoft Azure, IBM Cloud, are all examples of large scale IaaS’s to virtualize raw computing utilities on the public cloud at a relatively low level.  Newer container and serverless options go even further and eliminate some of the middleware and operating systems that come with IaaS.  In this class we are using Kubernetes which itself is an organizational tool to manage clusters of containers for virtualized computing, so it’s cool to be using one of these new services in action.
  
  The paper ends with some challenges and opportunities for cloud computing where it stood back in 2009.  A few of those challenges dealt with privacy, security, and availability and it was unclear the direction the industry would take with respect to them.  A lot of the cloud computing options today aren’t all just pure utilities.  More likely there is some level of agreement between the cloud provider and cloud user about hardware/software infrastructure, network and firewall configurations, platform operating system and access management, data encryption, etc.  This helps share the responsibility and operational burden between the two parties.  As a formal example, AWS’s Shared Responsibility Model does just that and serves as a framework that defines the division of security responsibilities.  AWS is responsible for the protection of physical infrastructure (data centers, cooling, power), global infrastructure, and software that runs the services, which can all be thought of as “security OF the cloud.”  While the customer handles more of the configuration details based on the AWS service that is selected.  For an IaaS like EC2, the customer must configure the security and management tasks like network and firewall, network traffic encryption and integrity, operating system and access management, which can all be thought of as “security IN the cloud.”  This framework differs slightly from the papers pure view of raw computing as utilities in the cloud, but serves as a necessary protection and clear division of ownership.
  
  Overall I thoroughly enjoyed reading this paper and researching further on the topics predicted and questioned within.  The industry of cloud computing is rapidly growing and I’m eager to learn more about its beginnings, practical applications, and its future.

Links to supporting resources: 
* [https://www.ibm.com/topics/iaas]
* [https://www.eginnovations.com/blog/saas-vs-paas-vs-iaas-examples-differences-how-to-choose/]
* [https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/]
