## Assignment: Summary Response to Cloud Native Software Engineering by Brian S. Mitchell

After reading the Cloud Native Software Engineering paper, I found the call for more software engineering specific cloud education to be the most impactful.  An improved focus in this area would be critical for the company’s success in converting to cloud development.  Even though I’m currently pursuing a Master’s degree in software engineering, I’ve been thinking recently about obtaining certifications like those discussed in the paper for AWS such as Cloud Development, Cloud DevOps Engineering, and Cloud Architect.  It stood out to me that despite these certifications being highly valued for the technical skills they teach, there is still a great need for higher level system design and architecture knowledge in order to deliver effective cloud based solutions.  The paper truly highlights that knowing how to engineer a good solution is a key skill in today’s landscape of cloud computing.

The paper discusses a lot of the recent contributions in cloud computing and how the environment evolved to its current state.  One connecting thread that is evident throughout the paper is that APIs are central to successful cloud computing.  Cloud environments are often comprised of multiple services and platforms from different providers. APIs act as the glue that enables these diverse components to work together seamlessly.  APIs enable dynamic management and help to drive interoperability, scalability, cost reduction, development time, security, and so many more improvements.  One aspect that I find fascinating is how different cloud providers can diversify their services and they can all be connected through APIs.  The example of the interplay between Uber and the Google Maps highlights how APIs from different providers can come together to make an excellent product.  Uber isn’t a location services, their cornerstone service is connecting riders to drivers, and they can focus their development on that intellectual property.  To make things easy, they can integrate a location service from a source who has mastered the development of that feature.  This is a great opportunity for companies to specialize their services, rather than using significant resources developing all aspects of delivered product.  I am definitely interested in learning more about the interoperability and interfaces between APIs from multiple sources.

Developers can utilize these APIs to access pre-built features, services, and data, which significantly reduces development time and effort. This accelerates the overall development process and allows companies to bring new products and services to market faster.  APIs serve as the gateway to network, storage, and compute services allowing developers to utilize them in their applications without worrying about the underlying infrastructure.  Again this allows developers to focus on the innovative applications rather than managing the lower level infrastructure.  This has become critically more important with the rapid increase of IoT devices.  APIs make it possible to connect the millions of devices on the edge of cloud computing, or fog computing as the paper describes.  

I think all of the benefits that APIs bring to the center of cloud computing only strengthens the argument for increased proper software specific cloud education.  Creating well-designed APIs is essential for building reliable and scalable cloud applications. API performance significantly impacts application responsiveness and user experience. Software engineers need to know how to optimize API endpoints for speed and efficiency, as well as consider horizontal and vertical scaling strategies to handle demand fluctuations. With security and management of sensitive data becoming more and more important in today’s digital world, software engineers must also know how to implement robust authentication mechanisms to safeguard sensitive data and functionalities. Decisions around access control, user permissions, and token management are key to prevent security breaches, unauthorized access, and theft of data.  The list goes on and on for the considerations that software engineers need to make in order to develop a successful cloud computing product.  A good developer may know how to make different APIs for different applications, but a great developer will know the proper design decision to deploy optimized, reliable, maintainable, and cost effective solutions.  

I thought this paper did a really good job at highlighting the need for research into software engineering practices revolving around cloud native applications.  The description of the recent growth of cloud computing also highlighted opportunities for software engineering concerns.  I thought the figures aided the textual descriptions very well and they were helpful to visualize the different architectures.  I did not have any background on availability zones or regions associated with the cloud environment, so I found the basic description of this architecture helpful to set the scenes. Overall I thought this paper posed insightful questions for the industry with relevant examples and data.
